README.md, before:

# Metoer App-Dump

### A Simple In-App Backup/Restore solution for Meteor

Example: http://app-dump-example.meteor.com/, or check the `/example` folder

Generates a downloadable tar backup of the current mongo database, which can be uploaded to restore.

Use `{{> appDumpUI}}` to add download and upload UI to your template.

Secure the download and upload method on the server:

```
if Meteor.isServer
  appDump.allow = ->
    # do your own auth here -- eg. check if user is an admin...
    if @user?.admin
      return true
```

:exclamation: I have experienced an issue with large grid-fs collections being restored while writes are occuring. This is being looked in to. In the meantime use `mongodump` for mission critical operations.

:warning: Restoring a backup will destroy existing data.

:thumbsup: Works on meteor.com hosting.


## What's wrong with [`hitchcott:backup-restore`](https://github.com/hitchcott/meteor-backup-restore/)?

It doesn't work with the meteor.com deployment servers because it requires MongoDB to be installed on the host system. 

`hitchcott:app-dump` uses a pure node implementation, so does not require `mongodump` or `mongorestore`. It also uses streams for serving the tar, so it's a bit more efficient and secure.


## TODO

Tests

## Author

Chris Hitchcott, 2014

MIT License

## Thanks to

[hex7c0](https://github.com/hex7c0) for creating [mongodb-backup](https://github.com/hex7c0/mongodb-backup) and [mongodb-restore](https://github.com/hex7c0/mongodb-restore)

Commit message:

add query parameters to control backup and restore functionality

README.md, after:

# Metoer App-Dump

### A Simple In-App Backup/Restore solution for Meteor

Example: http://app-dump-example.meteor.com/, or check the `/example` folder

Generates a downloadable tar backup of the current mongo database, which can be uploaded to restore.

Use `{{> appDumpUI}}` to add download and upload UI to your template.

Secure the download and upload method on the server:

```
if Meteor.isServer
  appDump.allow = ->
    # do your own auth here -- eg. check if user is an admin...
    if @user?.admin
      return true
```

:exclamation: I have experienced an issue with large grid-fs collections being restored while writes are occuring. This is being looked in to. In the meantime use `mongodump` for mission critical operations.

:warning: Restoring a backup will destroy existing data.

:thumbsup: Works on meteor.com hosting.


## What's wrong with [`hitchcott:backup-restore`](https://github.com/hitchcott/meteor-backup-restore/)?

It doesn't work with the meteor.com deployment servers because it requires MongoDB to be installed on the host system. 

`hitchcott:app-dump` uses a pure node implementation, so does not require `mongodump` or `mongorestore`. It also uses streams for serving the tar, so it's a bit more efficient and secure.


## A little flexability

app-dump provides a server route which proceses the requests for backup and restore. This modification enables a couple of 
query parameters to alter how the backup or restore is performed.

### backup

/appDump?[c=collection1,collection2][q={field: {$eq:4}}][&f=newNameForTarFile]

c : String - comma seperated list of collections to backup. default operation without parameter is to backup all collections in the database.
q : String - mongo selector to run aginst collections in the backup.
f : String - override the default tar file name which is downloaded.


### restore

/appDump?[d=[true|false]]

d : Boolean - default true which drops the database before restore. false to restore with drop.


## TODO

Tests

## Author

Chris Hitchcott, 2014

Benjamin Chalich, 2015 - pull request to add query parameters to adjust functionality.

MIT License

## Thanks to

[hex7c0](https://github.com/hex7c0) for creating [mongodb-backup](https://github.com/hex7c0/mongodb-backup) and [mongodb-restore](https://github.com/hex7c0/mongodb-restore)
